Newsletters: add 212 (2022-08-10) (#827)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2022-08-10-newsletter.md

  with transactions paying at least 1 sat/vbyte, then a higher feerate
  will need to be paid.  Transactions paying a lower feerate can still
  be included in blocks by miners and those blocks will be relayed.
  Other node software implements similar policies.

    Lowering the default minimum feerate has been discussed in the past
    (see [Newsletter #3][news3 min]) but [hasn't been merged][bitcoin
    core #13922] into Bitcoin Core.  The topic saw renewed
    [discussion][chauhan min] in the past couple weeks:

    - *Individual change effectiveness:* it was [debated][todd min] by
      [several][vjudeu min] people how effective it was for individual
      node operators to change their policies.

    - *Past failures:* it was [mentioned][harding min] that the previous
      attempt to lower the default feerate was hampered by the lower
      rate also reducing the cost of several minor denial-of-service
      (DoS) attacks.

    - *Alternative relay criteria:* it was [suggested][todd min2] that
      transactions violating certain default criteria (such as the
      default minimum feerate) could instead fulfill some separate

>       criteria made DoS attacks costly---for example, if a modest amount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      criteria in order to make DoS attacks costly---for example, if a modest amount
```

question below to see a summary of the answer from the meeting.*

FIXME:LarryRuane

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="FIXME"
  a0="FIXME"
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/12345#l-123"
%}

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [Core Lightning 0.12.0rc1][] is a release candidate for the next major
  version of this popular LN node implementation.

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #25610][] wallet, rpc: Opt in to RBF by default FIXME:adamjonas

- [Bitcoin Core #24584][] wallet: avoid mixing different `OutputTypes` during coin selection FIXME:Xekyo

> - [Core Lightning #5071][] adds a book keeping plugin that provides an

Reviewer: Could see either way, but consider 

```suggestion
- [Core Lightning #5071][] adds a bookkeeper plugin that provides an
```

  accounting record of movements of bitcoins by the node running the
  plugin, including the ability to track the amount spent on fees.  The

>   merged PR includes a variety of new RPC commands and results.

Reviewer: Not sure if 'results' adds value here. Or its unclear.

> - [BDK #645][] adds a way to specify which taproot spend paths to sign

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [BDK #645][] adds a way to specify which [taproot][topic taproot] spend paths to sign
```

Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #25610][] opts-in the RPCs and `-walletrbf` to RBF
  by default. This follows the update mentioned in
  [Newsletter #208][news208 core RBF], enabling node operators to
  switch their node's transaction replacement behavior from the
  default opt-in RBF (BIP125) to full RBF. RPC opt-in by default was
  proposed in 2017 in [Bitcoin Core #9527][] when the primary
  objections were the novelty at the time, the inability to bump
  transactions and the GUI not having functionality to disable RBF --
  all of which have since been addressed.

- [Bitcoin Core #24584][] amends coin selection to prefer input sets
  composed of a single output type. This addresses scenarios in which
  mixed-type input sets reveal the change output of preceding
  transactions. This follows a related privacy improvement to [always

>   match the change type][Bitcoin Core #23789] to a recipient output (see

Reviewer 2: add to 23789 linkers/issues

meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and answers.  Click on a
question below to see a summary of the answer from the meeting.*

FIXME:LarryRuane

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="FIXME"
  a0="FIXME"
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/12345#l-123"
%}

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [Core Lightning 0.12.0rc1][] is a release candidate for the next major
  version of this popular LN node implementation.

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #25610][] opts-in the RPCs and `-walletrbf` to RBF

>   by default. This follows the update mentioned in

Reviewer 3: The first sentence throws me off. I would have expected `-walletrbf` to already cause the wallet to use RBF. Do you mean that all RPCs act as if a `-walletrbf` had gotten passed along after this change?

      of hashcash-style proof of work committed to the transaction to
      relay.

    The discussion did not reach a clear conclusion as of this writing.

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review Club][]
meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and answers.  Click on a
question below to see a summary of the answer from the meeting.*

[Decouple validation cache initialization from ArgsManager][review club 25527]
is a PR by Carl Dong that separates node configuration logic from the
initialization of signature and script caches.
It is part of the [libbitcoinkernel project][].

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="In your own words, what does the `ArgsManager` do?
Why or why not should `ArgsManager` belong in `src/kernel` versus `src/node`?"
  a0="It's a global data structure for handling configuration options
(`.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf` and command line arguments).
It lets users customise the configuration of their nodes.
It's undesirable for the consensus engine (`src/kernel`) to access `ArgsManager` for
any reason, because it could, in principle, allow per-node configuration options

> to modify the behavior of the consensus engine. This could lead to

Reviewer 4: @glozow:
> The nodes don't need to all have the same cache size

That's exactly what I initially thought, as I said [here](https://bitcoincore.reviews/25527#l-50):

> "validation caches ... Why belong in src/kernel?" I'm unclear on that. A "cache", in normal usage, means just a performance optimization (the more stuff you cache, the quicker you can get to it) ... so why are those caches related to consensus?

Then sipa [replied](https://bitcoincore.reviews/25527#l-52):

> If the cache has a bug, it may impact consensus.

a loss of consensus between nodes. Also, when the [libbitcoinkernel project][] is
complete, it will be possible to build a simple node that's barely more than
the consensus engine, and might not even have this global data structure.
Reducing dependency on globals is always an improvement."
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/25527#l-35"

  q1="In your own words, what are the validation caches? Why would they belong in
`src/kernel` versus `src/node`?"
  a1="When a new block arrives, the most computationally expensive part of validating

> it is validating its transactions; this is part of the consensus engine.

Reviewer 5: More specifically than transactions (which is most of the data anyway), script and signature verification is expensive, which is why we cache it.

is an unsigned integer that's
guaranteed to be able to hold the length (in bytes) of any object
in memory, including an array.
The `size_t` type can be either 32 bits on a 32-bit memory system or
64 bits on a 64-bit memory system. A `size_t` can also hold an array index,
which is one of its most common uses.
It also matches the size of a memory pointer."
  a3link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/25527#l-163"
%}

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [Core Lightning 0.12.0rc1][] is a release candidate for the next major
  version of this popular LN node implementation.

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

> - [Bitcoin Core #25610][] opts-in the RPCs and `-walletrbf` to [RBF][topic rbf]
>   by default. This follows the update mentioned in
>   [Newsletter #208][news208 core RBF], enabling node operators to

Reviewer 3: The first sentence throws me off, it's not clear to me how `-walletrbf` and the RPCs are changed. How about:

```suggestion
- [Bitcoin Core #25610][] sets by default the startup option `-walletrbf` and uses 
  by default the `replaceable` option for the RPCs `createrawtransaction` and `createpsbt`. 
  Transactions created via the GUI were already opt-in [RBF][topic rbf]
  by default. This follows the update mentioned in
  [Newsletter #208][news208 core RBF], enabling node operators to
```
